"He unearthed a fist-sized sphere… He pressed the relic beneath his tongue…"
A fist doesn’t fit under a tongue.

"Painted lions lie on their sides, chipped hooves reaching…"
Lions don’t have hooves.

"I slip the trunk’s label beneath the door seal… The poison label warms in my pocket…"
Left under the door, yet somehow back in the pocket.

"a shimmering platform strung to balloons of glass… as if rubber remembered cradle songs."
Glass balloons don’t suddenly become rubber.

"He shut down the breaker and the fluorescent lights hummed back to life…"
Cutting power doesn’t turn lights on.

"folded it into a paper ship… If the ship slipped outward… Father might receive it a century…"
A paper boat can’t ride a draft through space-time.

"Between breaths held underwater… plunged her face… and borrowed another heartbeat of oxygen."
You can’t inhale oxygen by face-dunking while holding your breath.

"slung the accordion over my shoulder… I heard music ahead… found a woman… coaxing…"
You took the only accordion, yet it’s playing up ahead.

"…lunar observatory above the clouds… sunrise over the distant Earth"
On the Moon there are no clouds—or Earth “sunrises.”

"…outlast the bitter wind… the mineral smell, the static on her tongue."
No wind on the Moon, and you can’t smell through a suit.

"Every pale tree bowing in the vacuum… pollen… coated his lungs in frost."
Vacuum means no breathing, period.

"At every deserted village… teaching children…"
If it’s deserted, there aren’t kids.

"One rainy dawn… the sky surrendered to dawn for the first time in years."
You already had dawn; it can’t also be the first in years.

"Water surged… He demanded override codes… bubbles spilled from his lips."
People don’t issue commands mid-gurgle underwater.

"its keyboard removed… keys lay jumbled… Slowly she tapped… the keyboard hissed aside,"
Removed and loose parts don’t magically work as a keyboard.

"…a silver locket photo… encased in glass… Mara opened it,"
Is it a photo, a locket, or Schrödinger’s trinket?

"The strip caught the failing sunlight, throwing a phantom image… 'For Our Children's Air'."
A film strip can’t project a crisp banner without a lens and lamp.

"…a hairline crack… he realized it was a folded billet of tin…"
A hairline crack can’t hide a folded metal note.

"The kiln cracked open like sunrise… set them inside the kiln he planned to build"
It can’t both exist and be unbuilt.

"He inhaled the thin air that smelled of burnt helium,"
Helium is odorless and doesn’t burn.

"Every exhale risked drawing acid vapor into her lungs,"
Exhaling pushes air out; it doesn’t draw fumes in.

"…the sundial… its needle twitching nervously."
Sundials don’t have needles; meters do.

"…slapped the cards onto the wet stone, letting them float face up…"
Cards on stone don’t float.

"“Do not touch the vial,” he rasped… flooded lungs… opened his cracked regulator…"
Talking and inhaling vapor underwater isn’t how bodies work.

"…the last monarch butterfly… monarchs flurried overhead… the last monarch butterfly…"
It can’t be the “last” if there’s a swarm.

"He tries picking it, but the hinge refuses;"
You pick locks, not hinges.

"…he swept shards of moonlight into a circle to mark the site."
You can’t sweep light like broken glass.

"…weight swinging beneath the pendulum balcony… where the cuckoo clock weight hung unused."
It can’t be swinging and “unused.”

"…the uncast bell hanging mute above the acid sea… only as mirrored negatives in vats…"
An uncast bell can’t be hanging up.

"…a storybook illustration plate, tarnished silver… The plate… ancient steel remembered…"
Pick a metal; it can’t be silver and steel.